README.md, before:

# SciRuby Tutorials

Useful tutorials, blogs and screencasts about SciRuby tools. Contributions [welcome](https://github.com/SciRuby/tutorials/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

# Data Analysis

## Blogs

* [Example logistic regression with categorical data (shelter animal data from a kaggle competition)](http://www.alexejgossmann.com/categorical_data_glm_in_ruby/)

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Linear Algebra

## Blogs

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Visualization

## Blogs

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Misc.

## Conference Talks

* [Seeing Data Clearly with daru - Sameer Deshmukh (Deccan Ruby Conf 2015)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nebhnjBiZrY).
* [Scientific Computation in Ruby - Sameer Deshmukh (Red Dot Ruby Conf 2016)](https://youtu.be/3JWZMT46FSI?list=PLECEw2eFfW7iiJpXtb_cYeKv5_A6Pd1tl).

## Screencasts

* [benchmark-plot](https://youtu.be/WW6M4Df-soQ).

## Webinars

## Podcasts

## Contributing your own tutorials

Any new links and contents to SciRuby tools are welcome. Go through the CONTRIBUTING carefully before you do!

Commit message:

blog post on NMatrix with Intel MKL on HPC

README.md, after:

# SciRuby Tutorials

Useful tutorials, blogs and screencasts about SciRuby tools. Contributions [welcome](https://github.com/SciRuby/tutorials/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

# Data Analysis

## Blogs

* [Example logistic regression with categorical data (shelter animal data from a kaggle competition)](http://www.alexejgossmann.com/categorical_data_glm_in_ruby/)

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Linear Algebra

## Blogs

* [Installing NMatrix with Intel MKL on my university's high performance computing system](http://www.alexejgossmann.com/nmatrix-on-my-universities-hpc/)

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Visualization

## Blogs

## Notebooks

## Screencasts

# Misc.

## Conference Talks

* [Seeing Data Clearly with daru - Sameer Deshmukh (Deccan Ruby Conf 2015)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nebhnjBiZrY).
* [Scientific Computation in Ruby - Sameer Deshmukh (Red Dot Ruby Conf 2016)](https://youtu.be/3JWZMT46FSI?list=PLECEw2eFfW7iiJpXtb_cYeKv5_A6Pd1tl).

## Screencasts

* [benchmark-plot](https://youtu.be/WW6M4Df-soQ).

## Webinars

## Podcasts

## Contributing your own tutorials

Any new links and contents to SciRuby tools are welcome. Go through the CONTRIBUTING carefully before you do!
